In the last lecture we learn how to use nested routes.
Now you might have noticed one thing maybe even earlier when we are on a given post and we click on
a different post we don't actually load debt though you can see in the R L that the ID changes.
So it is registering the click but it isn't loading the new component.
Now the reason for this is dead re-act router behind the scenes doesn't replace the component all the
time.
If you're loading a component on which you're already on like we are here it won't really render the
whole component and therefore for the full post component did mount isn't executed again because why
would it do that.
Decompose it itself didn't change it would be very inefficient to unmount it and remounted.
So since components did mount isn't executed again though we're not reaching out to the web again.
So to fix this what we should do is we should also implement component did update to handle this case
because it did update will be executed again.
And I will add a new method load data convenience method which will simply hold my old code here where
I reach out to the web and load my data because now I want to call this both in component mount and
component that update so this load data will be called in both lifecycle hooks so that I'm prepared
both for the first time this single post gets loaded and the second time.
Now however do you see by the console log already we have an infinite loop.
So this is not the perfect solution.
I click on a link here and it keeps on loading again.
So definitely not what we want to do what's wrong with our current setup here.
Well it's our check in load data we're checking if our idea changed and we're checking for this proper
ID.
Now just as everywhere else here this needs to be this prop's match Perrin's ID this prop's ID will
never be set.
So we had the same infinite loop problem we had in the HD section because our check here wasn't working
anymore and we not only need to update this here we need to update it everywhere and as component where
we referenced this prop's ID of course also here are why is deleting would never work.
And of course also down here where we check if the ID is set.
Now with all these changes in place it would still not work because the ID were retrieving from the
proud parents is actually going to be a string.
Now here we're checking for type equality to anti-ID stored in the loaded post actually is a number.
So we either have to taken words E-string ID to a number or simply turn this into a check or we just
check for the value.
Now if we just check just for the value and click a post.
Now you see it's not loading all the time.
Instead it only loads once but it correctly updates it when we switch to post.
Again the alternative would be to leave the typing quality check but to convert this into a number by
adding a plus in front of it for example.
Now again if I click on a post we loaded we loaded only once.
We don't enter the infinite loop.
This is an important fix to the full post component in general that we use match Perens ID all over
the component and it's also important to understand that you need to handle changes in component.
Did update if DB post component or if component in general is already loaded for routing because the
router will not unmount the old one and mount the same one again with different data.
It will reuse the old one and just adjust the route parameter.
It's your job to react to this new parameter and you can react to that in component that update which
will be called because the props changed.
You receive a new prop's with a new match object with a new parents object with the new ID.
This is what's happening here.
Does what we're taking advantage of.
And this is important to understand.
When working with nested routes.